Introduction to Clojure for Perl Programmers

There's a lot about the Clojure programming language for a Perl programmer to like.
It's very dynamic and very practical.
If you think it's just for the JVM, you're very wrong.
Let Ingy teach you the basics of this exciting language including compiling it to binary and using it directly with Perl!


Clojure (pronounced like "closure") is a programming language that was created to make Java programming not be a nightmare!
Clojure can use any library written in Java and Java can use any library written in Clojure.
It's core data structures are immutable yet easy to work with.
This makes it a great functional programming language, and makes concurrency simple and reliable.
At the same time it supports mutable data structures when you need them (not very often).
It's a very practical language.
Clojure went beyond Java and the JVM to support other host languages, most notably JavaScript.
These days Clojure can be run directly without any host (no JVM at all).
It can also be compiled to binary executables and shared libraries.
That means you can write "XS" modules in a very high level language.
Clojure has a Lisp syntax, and if you've been wanting to really learn a Lisp, Clojure is a very practical one to start with.

In this talk, Ingy dot Net will teach you as much as he can in 50 minutes about how a Perl programmer can be productive with Clojure.





YAMLScript - Dynamic YAML in Perl and Raku

There's a new YAML loader in town, for both Perl and Raku!
It loads all of your existing YAML files just as expected, but you can also call functions at any point.
You can include other files, fetch web data or query a database! You can merge, concat, interpolate & 100s more.
I think you'll love it!


At TPRC 2023 I(ngy) talked about Lingy and YAMLScript.
Immediately afterwards all the pieces fell in place to make YAMLScript the most powerful YAML loader for every language, including Perl and Raku.
While YAMLScript is a complete functional programming language (available right now) its main focus is to fix most of the problems people have with YAML, and also take YAML's capabilities to a whole new level.

In this talk, Ingy dot Net will teach you how to use the YAMLScript loader modules for Perl and Raku.
Then he'll teach you how to easily tame your YAML and do just about anything you'd normally do from a programming language directly in YAML.

I think you'll be pleasantly surprised  just how clean and powerful it is when you add YAMLScript to your YAML files.





YAMLScript - Scripting in YAML

What's the best language for writing scripts?
Is it Bash? Perl? Raku? YAML?
Huh? YAML's not even a scripting language...
Well it is now, and it might be your go to language after this talk!
Ingy wants to show you how to be super productive with nice clean functional YAML code.
Welcome to YAMLScript!

While YAMLScript is focused on making YAML configuration be incredible, it's also a complete functional programming language.
It comes with an extensive standard library, tons of external real world external libraries, all the things you expect a real programming language to have.
How is that possible? It's because YAMLScript jit-compiles to another real world language, Clojure.
But while Clojure is a Lisp that runs on the JVM, YAMLScript looks closer to Python and needs no JVM.
It's clean, fast and a great way to script just about anything.
And if your script needs data, well I hope you know we got you covered!

Come hear Ingy dot Net tell you about this great new addition to your day to day hacking toolbox.
